Wow, you made it through the first two parts of this lesson.
You can identify and test data to determine the correct EHR dataset level,
and you know how to prevent data leakage when splitting datasets.
Now comes the fun part,
feature engineering with TensorFlow.
In this part we'll cover ETL using the dataset API and transform datasets
using the TensorFlow feature column API for both numerical and categorical features.
As a reminder, the feature column API can be extremely useful for
transforming datasets at scale and building some unique feature types.
Are you ready? Let's get started.
The TensorFlow dataset API allows you to process your input data in
a distributed format that can be batched and processed in parallel on GPUs slash TPUs.
This API also does the work of building
iterators that batch processed data and prevent memory issues.
There are many ways to further optimize the input pipelines for training,
but we will use this API to help with loading
datasets to hopefully simplify the ETL process for you.
In the next part, we will walk through a common example with
a smaller dataset where you use Pandas to load and explore
the data and then use TensorFlow to actually
transform it and build TensorFlow datasets for training a model.
In this next lesson walk through,
we will learn how to take a Pandas DataFrame that we loaded in from
a CSV and then convert it to a TensorFlow dataset using the API.
Just a quick note, that a TensorFlow dataset cannot accept
mixed datatypes and maybe necessary to remove or convert null values.
Let's go to ETL with the TensoFrlow dataset API and Pandas.
We will use the swiss heart disease dataset that we have been using earlier,
and we will select only a few columns for the sake of this exercise.
We will use this function adapted from
the TensorFlow documentation to convert the Pandas DataFrame to a TensorFlow dataset.
As we mentioned in the lesson,
a TensorFlow dataset has the advantage for
distributed training and leveraging lots of the power of TensorFlow.
Basically this function separates the features from the label,
shuffles it, and then puts it into batches that can be iteratively loaded.
Let's go to actually using this function now.
Here we use the function with the batch size argument that we
arbitrarily set to 64 and the predictor label or field here.
Here we take a sample of the dataset to confirm that is loading things up correctly.
You can see the three features here along with a batch of 64 values,
why don't you see the full feature?
Well, that's because the label is separated and you can access
that separate value in a different TensorFlow tensor, which you can see here.
Now you know how to use Pandas to load a dataset from a CSV and
then convert that to a TensorFlow dataset so that you can use it for modeling later.